# Beautiful Soup

---

## BEAUTIFUL SOUP 
 * Beautiful soup is a python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files. 
 * It works with your favorite parser to provide idiomatic ways of navigating, searching, and modifying the parse tree. 
 * It commonly saves programmers hours or days of work.

---

##  HOW TO INSTALL BEAUTIFUL SOUP 
 * If you haven't install `pip` first install that using the command `apt-get update apt-get –y install-pip` 
 * To install beautiful soup `pip install beautifulsoup`
 * To install: parser `apt-get install python-lxml` , `pip install lxml` `apt-get install python-html5lib` , `pip install html5lib`

---

## INITIALIZING THE SOUP 
 * To parse a document, pass it into the beautifulsoup constructor. You can pass in a string or an open filehandle.

---

## KINDS OF OBJECT 
 * Beautiful soup transforms a complex HTML document into a complex tree of python objects. 
 * But you'll only ever have to deal with about four kinds of objects: 
   - Tag 
   - NavigableString 
   - BeautifulSoup 
   - Comment

---

## TAG 
 *  The `tag` object corresponds to an XML OR HTML tag in the original document 
 * Every tag has a name, accessible as `.Name` eg: `tag.name`  
 * If you change a tag's name, the change will be reflected in any HTML markup generated by beautiful soup.

---

## ATTRIBUTES 
 *  tag may have any number of attributes. You can access a tag's attributes by treating the tag like a dictionary. 
 * You can access that dictionary directly as .attrs . (Eg:`tag.attrs #{'id':'boldest'}`) 
 * You can add, delete and modify a tag's attribute.
   - `tag['id']= 'verybold'`
   - `del tag['id'])` 
 * Multi-valued attribute.

---

## NAVIGABLESTRING 
 *  string corresponds to a bit of text within a tag. 
 *  `NavigableString` is just like a python Unicode string, except that it also supports some of the features described in navigating the tree and searching the tree. You can convert a NavigableSt.ring to a Unicode str (in python 3). 
 * You can't edit a string in place, but you can replace one string with another, using `replace_with()` Eg: `tag.string.replace_with("No longer bold") tag # <b class="boldest">No longer bold</b>`

---

## BEAUTIFULSOUP 
 * The beautifulsoup object represents the parsed document as a whole. 
 * It supports most of the methods described in Navigating the tree and Searching the tree.

---

## COMMENTS 
 * The comment object is just a special type of navigablestring. 
 * But when it appears as part of an HTML document, a comment is displayed with special formatting.
